the un's relief agency in Gaza is
warning that it will be forced to Halt
all operations if Israel doesn't allow
resumption of fuel supplies to the
besiege strip the organization says that
it could happen by Wednesday night when
it is expected to run out of fuel the
doctors in Gaza say that the health
sector in Gaza is already at the point
of collapse Julia Tuma is director of
communications for unoa that's the
United Nations relief and works Agency
for Palestine refugees in the near East
uh you're joining us from occupied uh
East uh Jerusalem Juliet thank you for
being with us update us on how much
longer unra can keep
going yeah thanks um the coming few
hours are really really critical as we
continue to push to get an urgent
shipment of fuel supplies into the Gaza
Strip if we do not get this shipment
tonight tomorrow morning Thursday
morning we are going to be forced to
take very tough decisions depriving
people depriving the communities that we
serve from humanitarian assistance in
the Gaza
Strip very tough decisions can you
elaborate on
that well if we do not get fuel we are
not able to drive our cars and deliver
assistance we are not able to drive our
trucks our meaning the United Nations
trucks and go to the border and pick up
the very little Supply that is coming
through the borders we will not be able
to send wheat flour to the bakery so
people will not have bread this is for
many many families the only thing
they're eating right now uh medical
facilities will not be able to operate
water pumping station will not be able
to go on it's a chain fuel for Gaza is
is life and that chain is going to be
interrupted if fuel doesn't come in and
with that life for so many people will
be interrupted as well will be cut short
so you say this is what happens if you
don't get fuel in the next few hours you
know as I do that Israel has said there
is no fuel going into the Gaza Strip
they have not wavered on that they have
not changed their mind since they posed
a total blockade on Gaza do you have any
hope of seeing fuel as you say in the
next few
hours no is always
hope and equally there is
need well do you have any information
that there might be coming
in I don't I don't so we just keep
calling because the coming few hours are
very
critical remind us how many people are
living in eroa schools and
Facilities 600,000 people uh and the
number continues to increase uh they
have sought Refuge because they were
forced to flee their homes uh in around
150 Andra facilities including many of
our schools that we run in the Gaza
Strip we turn those into shelters but we
were forced to open other facilities
that were not meant to shelter human
beings like we have around 8,000 people
living in a warehouse where we normally
store our supplies I mean in that
warehouse the conditions are absolutely
appalling we have reports that 400
people for example share one toilet we
are very very uh worried about the the
spread of diseases among people who are
Sheltering in our facilities because
they're overcrowded because when we plan
for the worst in in at anra we plan for
four times less the number that we have
right now in our shelters yeah we
reported earlier what eroa has been
saying that currently you're at four
times the capacity that Uno is built for
because of a sound issue I actually
missed that critical number Ju Just the
number if you could repeat it the number
of people who are in unra various unra
facilities at the
moment
600,000 people okay uh specific question
for you about the fuel the Israeli
military spokesman Daniel hagari and you
will be well aware of this has accused
Hamas of stealing petrol from unra he
said quote petrol will not enter Gaza
Hamas takes the petrol for its military
infrastructure can you speak to that is
has Hamas is Hamas stealing or has Hamas
stolen petrol and fuel that was
earmarked for the United Nations
agencies I can confirm that there was no
looting or stealing of any of our
supplies including fuel from
can you do you have any idea on where
that might be coming from I mean I don't
want to get you to speculate but you we
do need to address
this cannot comment on on that I'm not
in a position to comment on a statement
or a tweet I cannot okay I completely
understand it but equally I think you'll
understand that I have to ask you the
question so again it Bears repeating
you're telling us none of the aid that
goes into Gaza and that is destined for
the United Nations
goes into anyone else's hands am I
correct about
that yes because we are a neutral
humanitarian organization we are what we
call Direct implementers we have 13,000
staff members on the ground they take
those supplies and they distribute them
or use them for the benefit of the
communities that we serve we have a very
very tight scrutiny system that looks
into to how is humanitarian assistance
used for the benefit of the people that
we were mandated by the general assembly
of the United Nations to serve and can
you guarantee that since you're in a
territory where you know that is at War
can you guarantee that none of the aid
for the UN goes anywhere
else we have been on the ground in Gaza
for more than 7 decades we have staff
members who have been screened
themselves we have system in place for
monitoring and evaluation and for um and
for investigation we have reports that
go to our donors on how the money is
used and how the assistance is used we
have been working in the Gaza Strip for
more than 70 years now and this is how
we've done it and we are direct imp
implementers it means that the
assistance that is given to people is
given by United Nations workers who have
themselves gone through a
screening Juliet Tuma director of
communications for unoa the United
Nations relief and works Agency for
Palestinian refugees in the in near East
you told us 600,000 people are currently
Sheltering in your facilities and you're
going to have a major breakdown in what
you can do if not a total stop on what
you can do if fuel doesn't come into the
Gaza Strip uh in the coming hours we
thank you for your time
today